README.md, before:

[![PyPi version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/geckoterminal-api)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/geckoterminal-api/)
[![Downloads](https://static.pepy.tech/badge/geckoterminal-api)](https://pepy.tech/project/geckoterminal-api)
[![Python 3.10](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.10+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3100/)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/dineshpinto/geckoterminal-api/graph/badge.svg?token=JQLPDDAFX0)](https://codecov.io/gh/dineshpinto/geckoterminal-api)
[![API unittest](https://github.com/dineshpinto/geckoterminal-api/actions/workflows/unittests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/dineshpinto/geckoterminal-api/actions/workflows/unittests.yml)

# GeckoTerminal API

## RESTful (sync + async) Python client for GeckoTerminal API

Wrapper around the [GeckoTerminal](https://www.geckoterminal.com) DeFi and DeX
aggregator operating across 90+ chains and 500+ dexes.
Features both synchronous and asynchronous APIs.

Features:

- Get the market data (price, volume, historical chart) of any token
- Find all the pools that are trading a specific token
- Plot a candlestick chart using OHLCV when given a pool address

The API is currently in beta and is subject to change, please report any issues you
find.

## Installation

```bash
pip install geckoterminal-api
```

## Docs

See the [GeckoTerminal API docs](https://www.geckoterminal.com/dex-api) for more
details.

## Usage

### Synchronous API

```python
from geckoterminal_api import GeckoTerminalAPI

gt = GeckoTerminalAPI()
# Get a list of supported networks and their IDs
gt.networks()
```

### Asynchronous API

```python
import asyncio
from geckoterminal_api import AsyncGeckoTerminalAPI

agt = AsyncGeckoTerminalAPI()
# Get a list of supported networks and their IDs
asyncio.run(agt.networks())
```

## Examples

### Get trades for a specific pool

```ipython
# Query $ANALOS pool on Solana
>>> trades = gt.network_pool_trades(network="solana", pool="69grLw4PcSypZnn3xpsozCJFT8vs8WA5817VUVnzNGTh")
>>> for trade_data in trades["data"]:
>>>     trade = trade_data["attributes"]
>>>     print(f'{trade["block_timestamp"]} -- {trade["kind"]}: {float(trade["volume_in_usd"]):.2f} USD')
```

(truncated output)

```text
2023-12-27T08:27:24Z -- buy: 0.06 USD
2023-12-27T08:27:22Z -- buy: 54.73 USD
2023-12-27T08:27:22Z -- sell: 43.11 USD
2023-12-27T08:27:22Z -- sell: 105.08 USD
2023-12-27T08:27:20Z -- sell: 552.80 USD
2023-12-27T08:27:17Z -- buy: 1116.88 USD
2023-12-27T08:27:14Z -- sell: 1110.02 USD
2023-12-27T08:27:12Z -- buy: 52.44 USD
2023-12-27T08:27:02Z -- buy: 41.72 USD
2023-12-27T08:26:59Z -- sell: 15.31 USD
```

### Get pools trending on a network

```ipython
# Query trending pools on Solana
>>> gt.network_trending_pools(network="solana")
```

(truncated output)

```json
{
  "id": "solana_EP2ib6dYdEeqD8MfE2ezHCxX3kP3K2eLKkirfPm5eyMx",
  "type": "pool",
  "attributes": {
    "base_token_price_usd": "0.216341",
    "address": "EP2ib6dYdEeqD8MfE2ezHCxX3kP3K2eLKkirfPm5eyMx",
    "name": "$WIF / SOL",
    "fdv_usd": "214518552",
    "market_cap_usd": "201410163.369506",
    "price_change_percentage": {
      "h1": "2.75",
      "h24": "-11.76"
    },
    "transactions": {
      "h1": {
        "buys": 1143,
        "sells": 494,
        "buyers": 282,
        "sellers": 249
      },
      "h24": {
        "buys": 33874,
        "sells": 21413,
        "buyers": 6790,
        "sellers": 5363
      }
    },
    "volume_usd": {
      "h1": "782023.141511",
      "h24": "41413570.131944"
    }
  }
}
```

### Get new pools on a network

```ipython
# Query new pools on Arbitrum
>>> gt.network_new_pools(network="arbitrum")
```

(truncated output)

```json
{
  "id": "arbitrum_0x9405117878d3a7ff7968b3d6f322bf428c168ca7",
  "type": "pool",
  "attributes": {
    "base_token_price_usd": "0.000463649357219151",
    "address": "0x9405117878d3a7ff7968b3d6f322bf428c168ca7",
    "name": "JUPITER / WETH",
    "pool_created_at": "2023-12-23T22:19:36Z",
    "fdv_usd": "9736.64",
    "price_change_percentage": {
      "h1": "55.09",
      "h24": "55.09"
    },
    "transactions": {
      "h1": {
        "buys": 24,
        "sells": 4,
        "buyers": 24,
        "sellers": 4
      },
      "h24": {
        "buys": 24,
        "sells": 4,
        "buyers": 24,
        "sellers": 4
      }
    },
    "volume_usd": {
      "h1": "3191.9671827550049",
      "h24": "3191.9671827550049"
    },
    "reserve_in_usd": "14348.4777"
  }
}
```

and many more...

## Disclaimer

This project is for educational purposes only. You should not construe any such
information or other material as legal, tax, investment, financial, or other advice.
Nothing contained here constitutes a solicitation, recommendation, endorsement, or
offer by me or any third party service provider to buy or sell any securities or other
financial instruments in this or in any other jurisdiction in which such solicitation or
offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.

Under no circumstances will I be held responsible or liable in any way for any claims,
damages, losses, expenses, costs, or liabilities whatsoever, including, without
limitation, any direct or indirect damages for loss of profits.

Commit message:

Add proxy support to sync and async APIs

README.md, after:

[![PyPi version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/geckoterminal-api)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/geckoterminal-api/)
[![Downloads](https://static.pepy.tech/badge/geckoterminal-api)](https://pepy.tech/project/geckoterminal-api)
[![Python 3.10](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.10+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3100/)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/dineshpinto/geckoterminal-api/graph/badge.svg?token=JQLPDDAFX0)](https://codecov.io/gh/dineshpinto/geckoterminal-api)
[![API unittest](https://github.com/dineshpinto/geckoterminal-api/actions/workflows/unittests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/dineshpinto/geckoterminal-api/actions/workflows/unittests.yml)

# GeckoTerminal API

## RESTful (sync + async) Python client for GeckoTerminal API

Wrapper around the [GeckoTerminal](https://www.geckoterminal.com) DeFi and DeX
aggregator operating across 90+ chains and 500+ dexes.
Features both synchronous and asynchronous APIs.

Features:

- Get the market data (price, volume, historical chart) of any token
- Find all the pools that are trading a specific token
- Plot a candlestick chart using OHLCV when given a pool address

The API is currently in beta and is subject to change, please report any issues you
find.

## Installation

```bash
pip install geckoterminal-api
```

## Docs

See the [GeckoTerminal API docs](https://www.geckoterminal.com/dex-api) for more
details.

## Usage

### Synchronous API

```python
from geckoterminal_api import GeckoTerminalAPI

gt = GeckoTerminalAPI()
# Get a list of supported networks and their IDs
gt.networks()
```

### Asynchronous API

```python
import asyncio
from geckoterminal_api import AsyncGeckoTerminalAPI

agt = AsyncGeckoTerminalAPI()
# Get a list of supported networks and their IDs
asyncio.run(agt.networks())
```

## Examples

### Get trades for a specific pool

```ipython
# Query $ANALOS pool on Solana
>>> trades = gt.network_pool_trades(network="solana", pool="69grLw4PcSypZnn3xpsozCJFT8vs8WA5817VUVnzNGTh")
>>> for trade_data in trades["data"]:
>>>     trade = trade_data["attributes"]
>>>     print(f'{trade["block_timestamp"]} -- {trade["kind"]}: {float(trade["volume_in_usd"]):.2f} USD')
```

(truncated output)

```text
2023-12-27T08:27:24Z -- buy: 0.06 USD
2023-12-27T08:27:22Z -- buy: 54.73 USD
2023-12-27T08:27:22Z -- sell: 43.11 USD
2023-12-27T08:27:22Z -- sell: 105.08 USD
2023-12-27T08:27:20Z -- sell: 552.80 USD
2023-12-27T08:27:17Z -- buy: 1116.88 USD
2023-12-27T08:27:14Z -- sell: 1110.02 USD
2023-12-27T08:27:12Z -- buy: 52.44 USD
2023-12-27T08:27:02Z -- buy: 41.72 USD
2023-12-27T08:26:59Z -- sell: 15.31 USD
```

### Get pools trending on a network

```ipython
# Query trending pools on Solana
>>> gt.network_trending_pools(network="solana")
```

(truncated output)

```json
{
  "id": "solana_EP2ib6dYdEeqD8MfE2ezHCxX3kP3K2eLKkirfPm5eyMx",
  "type": "pool",
  "attributes": {
    "base_token_price_usd": "0.216341",
    "address": "EP2ib6dYdEeqD8MfE2ezHCxX3kP3K2eLKkirfPm5eyMx",
    "name": "$WIF / SOL",
    "fdv_usd": "214518552",
    "market_cap_usd": "201410163.369506",
    "price_change_percentage": {
      "h1": "2.75",
      "h24": "-11.76"
    },
    "transactions": {
      "h1": {
        "buys": 1143,
        "sells": 494,
        "buyers": 282,
        "sellers": 249
      },
      "h24": {
        "buys": 33874,
        "sells": 21413,
        "buyers": 6790,
        "sellers": 5363
      }
    },
    "volume_usd": {
      "h1": "782023.141511",
      "h24": "41413570.131944"
    }
  }
}
```

### Get new pools on a network

```ipython
# Query new pools on Arbitrum
>>> gt.network_new_pools(network="arbitrum")
```

(truncated output)

```json
{
  "id": "arbitrum_0x9405117878d3a7ff7968b3d6f322bf428c168ca7",
  "type": "pool",
  "attributes": {
    "base_token_price_usd": "0.000463649357219151",
    "address": "0x9405117878d3a7ff7968b3d6f322bf428c168ca7",
    "name": "JUPITER / WETH",
    "pool_created_at": "2023-12-23T22:19:36Z",
    "fdv_usd": "9736.64",
    "price_change_percentage": {
      "h1": "55.09",
      "h24": "55.09"
    },
    "transactions": {
      "h1": {
        "buys": 24,
        "sells": 4,
        "buyers": 24,
        "sellers": 4
      },
      "h24": {
        "buys": 24,
        "sells": 4,
        "buyers": 24,
        "sellers": 4
      }
    },
    "volume_usd": {
      "h1": "3191.9671827550049",
      "h24": "3191.9671827550049"
    },
    "reserve_in_usd": "14348.4777"
  }
}
```

and many more...

### Proxy support

You can use the `proxies` parameter to pass a dictionary of proxy URLs to the
synchronous API

```python
from geckoterminal_api import GeckoTerminalAPI

proxies = {
    'http': 'http://10.10.10.10:8000',
    'https': 'http://10.10.10.10:8000',
}
gt = GeckoTerminalAPI(proxies=proxies)
```

For the asynchronous API, you can use the `proxy` parameter:

```python
from geckoterminal_api import AsyncGeckoTerminalAPI

proxy = "http://proxy.com"
gt = AsyncGeckoTerminalAPI(proxy=proxy)
```

## Disclaimer

This project is for educational purposes only. You should not construe any such
information or other material as legal, tax, investment, financial, or other advice.
Nothing contained here constitutes a solicitation, recommendation, endorsement, or
offer by me or any third party service provider to buy or sell any securities or other
financial instruments in this or in any other jurisdiction in which such solicitation or
offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.

Under no circumstances will I be held responsible or liable in any way for any claims,
damages, losses, expenses, costs, or liabilities whatsoever, including, without
limitation, any direct or indirect damages for loss of profits.
